[Docs] T-shirt/Spacing - Updated content for t-shirt sizing and layout and spacing (#5521)
grommet/hpe-design-system: aries-site/src/pages/foundation/tshirt-sizing.mdx

import { Box, Image } from 'grommet';
import { Example, BestPracticeGroup } from '../../layouts';
import { ButtonSizingExample, SpacingBestPractices } from '../../examples';

## What is t-shirt sizing?

> T-shirt sizing is a tokenized scale that maps familiar clothing sizes (`small`, `medium`, `large`, etc.) to specific pixel values for sizing and spacing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
T-shirt sizing uses semantic names (a.k.a. design tokens) which map familiar clothing sizes (`small`, `medium`, `large`, etc.) to specific pixel values for sizing and spacing.
```

## The scale

The sizing scale follows three core principles:

- **Proportional**: Each step maintains a natural ratio to other steps
- **Composable**: Each step divides into halves, thirds, quarters; combines from smaller steps
- **Flexible**: Subsets serve various use cases from dense to spacious layouts

Built from dual base units: `24px` (primary) and `16px` (supplementary). The primary and supplementary scales combine via doubling/halving to produce:

**Pixel progression:** 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, 12, 16, 24, 32, 48, 64, 96, 128, 192, 256, 384, 512, 768, 1024, 1536

See [Layout and Spacing design tokens](/design-tokens/layout-and-spacing) for precise pixel values, implementation and versioning details.

## Composability

Sizes maintain mathematical relationships for predictable combinations.

```jsx
// Spacing sizes double:
xsmall (12px) + xsmall (12px) = medium (24px)
medium (24px) + medium (24px) = xlarge (48px)

// Container sizes follow the same pattern:
xsmall (192px) + xsmall (192px) = medium (384px)
medium (384px) + medium (384px) = xlarge (768px)

// Intermediate sizes fill gaps:
small (16px) = medium (24px) - xxsmall (8px)
large (32px) = medium (24px) + xxsmall (8px)

> ```

Reviewer: This should be moved to its own "Spacing System" page.

> ## Component Dimensions

Author: Good catch! This was AI making unsolicited changes. I fixed it and added the voice and tone details to the writing guide [here](https://hpe.atlassian.net/wiki/x/eAAJlg).

```
<Box width="medium" height="small" />
```

<Box width="large">
  <Image src="/box-sizing.png" alt="Demonstration of t-shirt sizing on Box" />
</Box>

## Spacing

Control spacing using t-shirt sizes for `pad`, `gap`, and `margin`.

- Spacing (`edgeSize`): Controls pad, gap, and margin

```
<Box
    width="medium"
    height="small"
    pad="large"
/>
```

<Box width="medium" margin={{bottom: 'large'}}>
  <Image
    src="/edge-sizing.png"
    alt="Demonstration of t-shirt sizing for pad on Box"
  />
</Box>

### Spacing best practices

<BestPracticeGroup>
  <Example
    height="none"
    bestPractice={{
      type: 'do',
      message:
        'Use spacing design tokens to style compositional or layout components like cards, layers, and grid spacing.',
    }}
    width="100%"
  >
    <SpacingBestPractices />
  </Example>
  <Example
    height="none"
    bestPractice={{
      type: 'dont',
      message: `Use spacing design tokens to style element-level components. Instead use component-specific tokens or element tokens which will ensure correct sizing of elements across screen sizes.`,
    }}
  >
    <SpacingBestPractices bestPractice={false} />
  </Example>
</BestPracticeGroup>

> ## Borders

Reviewer: This should be part of the "Container sizes" page.

Use named border size tokens to keep borders aligned with the scale. Avoid arbitrary pixel widths; apply them via the border prop, e.g. `border={{ size: 'small' }}`.

```
<Box 
  border={{ color: 'border', size: 'small' }}
  width="medium"
  height="small" 
/>
```

<Box width="medium" margin={{bottom: 'large'}}>
  <Image
    src="/border-sizing.png"
    alt="Demonstration of t-shirt sizing for border on Box"
  />
</Box>

## Containers

Use container size tokens for width and height constraints to preserve responsive flow. Avoid over‑constraining; prefer [content-driven layouts](/templates/content-layouts#content-driven-layouts).

> ## Radius

Reviewer: Move to "Container sizes" page.

Apply larger radius tokens to high‑level sections and smaller radii to inner elements to maintain visual hierarchy.

> ## Default Size

Reviewer: Move to "Component sizing" page.

import { Box, Image } from 'grommet';
import { Example, BestPracticeGroup } from '../../layouts';
import { ButtonSizingExample, SpacingBestPractices } from '../../examples';

## What is t-shirt sizing?

T-shirt sizing uses semantic names (a.k.a. design tokens) which map familiar clothing sizes (`small`, `medium`, `large`, etc.) to specific pixel values for sizing and spacing.
T-shirt sizes apply to:
- [Spacing](/foundation/spacing) (padding, margin, gap)
- [Content containers](/foundation/content-container-sizes) (width, height, border, radius)
- [Components](/foundation/component-sizes) (size property)

> Use t-shirt sizes rather than hard pixel values. If a new value is needed, report 

Reviewer 2: @halocline That looks good to me.
